Answers: <Google Sheet link>

Please answer the below core-java Questions:

A.
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Answer: Some of the main components JDK contains is The Runtime Interpreter, The Compiler, The Debugger,
The Class File Disassembler, The Documentation Generator, API Source Code, The Applet Viewer and more.
=> The Runtime Interpreter provides the support to run Java executable programs in compiled, bytecode format.
=> The Java compiler (javac) is used to compile Java source code files into executable Java bytecode classes.
=> The Debugger helps the user to test and debug other programs, by enabling their step-by-step execution controlled by
the user, setting of breakpoints, and monitoring values of variables.
=> The Class File Disassembler create .class file for jvm to run the code.
=> API Source Code let your product or service communicate with other products and services without having to know how
they're implemented.
=> The Applet Viewer to test your programs instead of having to wait for HotJava to support the final release of Java.

What is IDE?

Answer: Integrated Development Environment, enables programmers to consolidate the different aspects of writing a
computer program.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Answer: Few IDEs are IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse and Xcode.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer: Code/Text Editor =>(.java Source File)=> Java Compiler =>(.class Bytecode File)=> Class Loader =>
=> Bytecode Verifier => Interpreter => Host Machine.

what is class?
Answer: Class is blueprint of an object.

What is object?
Answer: An object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
Answer: The main method is a entry point of an application.
The value classname is the name of the class that is your application's entry point.

Why main is static?
Answer: so that compiler can call it without the creation of an object or before the creation of an object of the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer: Object Class is the superclass of all classes.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer: Path is an environment variable used to find the executable files (.exe).
ClassPath is also an environment variable used by application classloader to locate and load the (.class) files

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer: Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations. A Java abstract class can have instance
methods that implements a default behavior. An abstract class may contain non-final variables.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Answer: No, You cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete class

what is Access Specifier?
Answer: access modifiers in Java helps to restrict the scope of a class, constructor , variable , method or data member.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Answer: OOP is Object Oriented Programing. OOP have 4 primary concept abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance,
and polymorphism.
=> Abstraction means simple things like objects, classes, and variables represent more complex underlying code and data.
=> This is the practice of keeping fields within a class private, then providing access to them via public methods.
=> It lets programmers create new classes that share some of the attributes of existing classes.
=> This Java OOP concept lets programmers use the same word to mean different things in different contexts. One form of
polymorphism in Java is method overloading.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer: Package is a directory and The Java standard libraries include java. lang package by default, which contains a
number of components that are used very commonly in Java programs.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Answer: API stand for Application Programming Interface. One of them is HTTP.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Answer: java does not support multiple inheritances through classes but through the interfaces, we can use multiple
inheritances . No java doesn't support multiple inheritance directly because it leads to overriding of methods when
both extended class have a same method name.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Answer: Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name, if their
argument lists are different. When there is two method with same name in the same class with different signature.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Answer:An Exception is an unwanted event that interrupts the normal flow of the program. When an exception occurs
program execution gets terminated. The try-catch is the simplest method of handling exceptions.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods?
Answer: It is a keyword which is used to share the same variable or method of a given class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Answer: When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant. This also
means that you must initialize a final variable.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Answer: Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor?
Answer: A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer: A class can have multiple constructors, as long as their signature (the parameters they take) are not the same.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer: the keyword new is called to create object.

What is "this" keyword in java?
Answer: The this keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Answer: super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable. super can be used to invoke immediate
parent class method. super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
Answer: Java virtual machine

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer: while JAVA is platform-independent language, the JVM is platform-dependent

What version of java are you using?
Answer: 1.8

What is JAR stand for?
Answer: JAR stands for Java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer: JDK is a software development kit whereas JRE is a software bundle that allows Java program to run,
whereas JVM is an environment for executing bytecode.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer: JRE is the container, JVM is the content. Java Runtime Environment contains JVM, class libraries, and
other supporting files.

What is compile time and run time?
Answer: Compile-time is the time at which the source code is converted into an executable code while the run time is
the time at which the executable code is started running.

What is heap?
Answer: The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.

How java manage it's memory?
Answer: The Java Virtual Machine loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code, manages memory
and finally provides the runtime environment.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer: String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes. StringBuffer is thread-safe and
synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not. That's why StringBuilder is faster than StringBuffer.

What is Singleton class?
Answer: a singleton class is a class that can have only one object at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer: Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the
reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
Answer: The Java transient keyword is used on class attributes/variables to indicate that serialization process of such
class should ignore such variables while creating a persistent byte stream for any instance of that class.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
Answer: while loop check condition before iteration of the loop. On the other hand, the do-while loop verifies the
condition after the execution of the statements inside the loop.

What is Enum?
Answer: An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants and separate the constants with a comma.

What is Iterator?
Answer: An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Answer: Integer

Why is String Immutable in Java?
Answer: The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer: Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to
current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer: a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation, while a
parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.

What is JIT stands for?
Answer: Just-In-Time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Answer: Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or
decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage
collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer: No

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer: Java Heap Space is used throughout the application, but Stack is only used for the method — or methods —
currently running. The Heap Space contains all objects are created, but Stack contains any reference to those objects.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Answer: Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime, without
knowing the names of the classes, methods etc. at compile time. It is also possible to instantiate new objects, invoke
methods and get/set field values using reflection.

what is multithreading in java?
Answer: Multithreading is a Java feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of a program for maximum
utilization of CPU.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Answer: Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple
threads in Java. Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a synchronized method which
requires the same lock simultaneously or concurrently.

What is Framework?
Answer: Frameworks are bodies of pre-written code used by developers to create apps using the Java programming language.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
Answer: Some of the testing framework available in java are TestNG, JUnit.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Answer: JUnit provides an easier and readable approach to test known as Parameterized test. Both TestNG and JUnit
supports parameterized test but differ in the way they define the parameter value.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer: Dependencies are the relationships of the preceding tasks to the succeeding tasks.

what is dependency injection in java?
Answer: Dependency injection is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Answer: Static binding happens at compile-time while dynamic binding happens at runtime.

What is Collections Framework?
Answer: The Collection in Java is a framework that provides an architecture to store and manipulate the group of objects.

What is Collection and Collections?
Answer: The Collection is an interface whereas Collections is a class.

Explain what is main method?
Answer: Main method is the entry point of any java program.

What is StringBuffer and String Builder?
Answer: The String class is an immutable class whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder classes are mutable. ...
StringBuffer is synchronized i.e. thread safe.

What do you understand by Thread Safe?
Answer: Threadsafe means that it is safe to be accessed from multiple threads.

What are the latest changes in Java 8?
Answer: Some important Java 8 features are; forEach() method in Iterable interface and Lambda Expressions.

What do you understand by default method in Java?
Answer: The default methods were introduced to provide backward compatibility so that existing interfaces can use the
lambda expressions without implementing the methods in the implementation class.










