Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Answer: data structure enables a computer system to perform its task more efficiently, by influencing the ability of
computer to store and retrieve data from any location in its memory.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Answer: Create, Delete, Insert, Select, Update.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Answer: Compiler Design,
        Operating System,
        Database Management System,
        Statistical analysis package,
        Numerical Analysis,
        Graphics,
        Artificial Intelligence,
        and Simulation.

what is an Array?
Answer: An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Answer: Array is a fixed length data structure whereas ArrayList is a variable length Collection class. We cannot
change length of array once created in Java but ArrayList can be changed. We cannot store primitives in ArrayList,
it can only store objects. But array can contain both primitives and objects in Java.

what is LinkedList?
Answer: Linked List is an ordered collection of elements of same type, which are connected to each other using pointers.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
Answer: Array is a collection of elements of similar data type. Linked List is an ordered collection of elements of
same type, which are connected to each other using pointers.

what is queue?
Answer: Queue is an abstract data structure, , somewhat similar to Stacks. Unlike stacks, a queue is open at both its
ends. One end is always used to insert data (enqueue) and the other is used to remove data (dequeue).

what is stack?
Answer: Stack is a linear data structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer: FIFO is an abbreviation for first in, first out. It is a method for handling data structures where the first
element is processed first and the newest element is processed last. ... LIFO is an abbreviation for Last in, first
out is same as fist in, last out (FILO).

what is the order of complexity?
Answer: The complexity of an algorithm is a function describing the efficiency of the algorithm in terms of the amount
of data the algorithm must process.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer: Binary search is the best way.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer: The worst case arises when the element is at last position or not in the array, therefore we have to traverse
the whole array giving n no. of repetitions over loop. Therefore the worst case time complexity is O(n).

what is tree in data structure?
Answer: One reason to use trees might be because you want to store information that naturally forms a hierarchy.

what is graph in data structure?
Answer: A graph is a pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are connected by links.
The interconnected objects are represented by points termed as vertices, and the links that connect the vertices are
called edges.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer: One of the major differences between HashMap and Hashtable is that HashMap is non-synchronized whereas
Hashtable is synchronized, which means Hashtable is thread-safe and can be shared between multiple threads but HashMap
can not be shared between multiple threads without proper synchronization.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
Answer: RDBMS – Array (i.e. Array of structures)
        Network data model – Graph
        Hierarchical data model – Trees

How HashMap works in java?
Answer: It is a data structure which allows us to store object and retrieve it in constant time O(1) provided we know
the key.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
Answer: lang. ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException. ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is thrown to indicate that we are trying
to access array element with an illegal index. This exception is thrown when the index is either negative or greater
than or equal to the size of the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer: Using variable assignment. This method has side effects as changes to the element of an array reflects on
both the places.
Create a new array of the same length and copy each element.
Use the clone method of the array.
Use System.

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
Answer: Array is a collection of elements of similar data type. Linked List is an ordered collection of elements of
same type, which are connected to each other using pointers.

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer: DFS stands for Depth First Search. 2. BFS(Breadth First Search) uses Queue data structure for finding the
shortest path.

What is Recursion?
Answer: Some computer programming languages allow a module or function to call itself. This technique is known as
recursion.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Answer: In a linear data structure, data elements are arranged in a linear order where each and every elements are
attached to its previous and next adjacent. In a non-linear data structure, data elements are attached in
hierarchically manner.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Answer: A description of a function in terms of big O notation usually only provides an upper bound on the growth
rate of the function.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Answer: Insertion Sort and Heap Sort has the best asymptotic runtime complexity.

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.




